README.md, before:

ICS-E4020 Programming Parallel Computers
========================================

Material for the weekly exercises.

See the course web page for details:
https://users.ics.aalto.fi/suomela/ppc-2015/


Files to edit
-------------

Weekly reports:

    report/week*.pdf

Tasks:

    mf*/mf.cc


Quick start
-----------

Let us use task MF1 as an example:

    cd mf1
    make test

The test should fail, as we have not implemented the median filter
subroutine yet. Now open the file `mf.cc` in a text editor and
fill in the missing details. Then compile it:

    make

Run the test suite:

    make test

And do some benchmarking to see that it performs well:

    make benchmark

In the benchmarks, the last column is the running time in seconds.
For more thorough benchmarks, try:

    make benchmark2


Environment
-----------

We will assume the following:

 - Operating system: Linux or Mac OS X.

 - Compiler: GCC version 4.9 or 4.8, somewhere in the path,
   with the name `g++-4.9`, `g++-4.8`, or `g++`.

 - Libraries: libpng installed in a location where GCC can find it.

For assembly output, you also need `objdump` and `c++filt`.


### Classroom computers

Everything should work directly in the classroom computers (Maari-A).


### Your own computers

To run this on your own OS X computer, try the following:

 - Install Homebrew: http://brew.sh/

 - Run: `brew install gcc libpng binutils`

To run this on your own Ubuntu 14.04 Linux computer, try the
following:

 - Run: `sudo apt-get install g++-4.8 libpng12-dev`


Advanced: debug builds
----------------------

Disable optimisations:

    cd mf1
    make clean
    make DEBUG=1
    make test

Disable optimisations and enable address sanitizer
(helps to catch many memory access errors):

    cd mf1
    make clean
    make DEBUG=2
    make test

Remember to run `make clean` afterwards.


Advanced: see the assembly code
-------------------------------

To see the assembly code generated by the compiler, try the targets
`*.asm1` or `*.asm2`. Example:

    cd mf1
    make mf.asm1
    make mf.asm2

Open the files `mf.asm1` and `mf.asm2` in a text editor.

The first file is the assembly code produced by the compiler for
the file `mf.cc`, with some post-processing to make it more readable
(name demangling).

The second file is a disassembly of the object file `mf.o`, interleaved
with the source code from `mf.cc`.

Search for `mf(` to find the code related to function `mf()`.

The assembly code may not be that easy to read. You can try to see
what it looks like without optimisation:

    cd mf1
    make clean
    make DEBUG=1 mf.asm1
    make DEBUG=1 mf.asm2

Commit message:

More benchmark and test variants: "make benchmark1", "make test1"

README.md, after:

ICS-E4020 Programming Parallel Computers
========================================

Material for the weekly exercises.

See the course web page for details:
https://users.ics.aalto.fi/suomela/ppc-2015/


Files to edit
-------------

Weekly reports:

    report/week*.pdf

Tasks:

    mf*/mf.cc


Quick start
-----------

Let us use task MF1 as an example:

    cd mf1
    make test

The test should fail, as we have not implemented the median filter
subroutine yet. Now open the file `mf.cc` in a text editor and
fill in the missing details. Then compile it:

    make

Run the test suite:

    make test

And do some benchmarking to see that it performs well:

    make benchmark

In the benchmarks, the last column is the running time in seconds.


Variants
--------

For more thorough tests and benchmarks, you can also try:

    make test2
    make benchmark2

For OpenMP code, tests and benchmarks are automatically ran for
different numbers of threads (1, 2, 4, 8, and default). To only
run the default version, try:

    make test1
    make benchmark1


Environment
-----------

We will assume the following:

 - Operating system: Linux or Mac OS X.

 - Compiler: GCC version 4.9 or 4.8, somewhere in the path,
   with the name `g++-4.9`, `g++-4.8`, or `g++`.

 - Libraries: libpng installed in a location where GCC can find it.

For assembly output, you also need `objdump` and `c++filt`.


### Classroom computers

Everything should work directly in the classroom computers (Maari-A).


### Your own computers

To run this on your own OS X computer, try the following:

 - Install Homebrew: http://brew.sh/

 - Run: `brew install gcc libpng binutils`

To run this on your own Ubuntu 14.04 Linux computer, try the
following:

 - Run: `sudo apt-get install g++-4.8 libpng12-dev`


Advanced: debug builds
----------------------

Disable optimisations:

    cd mf1
    make clean
    make DEBUG=1
    make test

Disable optimisations and enable address sanitizer
(helps to catch many memory access errors):

    cd mf1
    make clean
    make DEBUG=2
    make test

Remember to run `make clean` afterwards.


Advanced: see the assembly code
-------------------------------

To see the assembly code generated by the compiler, try the targets
`*.asm1` or `*.asm2`. Example:

    cd mf1
    make mf.asm1
    make mf.asm2

Open the files `mf.asm1` and `mf.asm2` in a text editor.

The first file is the assembly code produced by the compiler for
the file `mf.cc`, with some post-processing to make it more readable
(name demangling).

The second file is a disassembly of the object file `mf.o`, interleaved
with the source code from `mf.cc`.

Search for `mf(` to find the code related to function `mf()`.

The assembly code may not be that easy to read. You can try to see
what it looks like without optimisation:

    cd mf1
    make clean
    make DEBUG=1 mf.asm1
    make DEBUG=1 mf.asm2
